# Copyright (c) 2015 Hartmut Kaiser
#
# Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0. (See accompanying
# file LICENSE_1_0.txt or copy at http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt)

Namespace: hpx::performance_counters

Format:
API Component
    File
    Comments

* functions
server::locality_results
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp

remote_object::new_<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/new.hpp
server::remote_object::apply<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/server/remote_object.hpp

* classes
distributing_factory
    hpx/components/distributing_factory.hpp

server::remote_locality_result
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
server::locality_result
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
server::partition_info
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
server::distributing_factory
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
server::locality_result_iterator
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp

server::remote_object
    hpx/components/remote_object/server/remote_object.hpp
server::remote_object_apply_action<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/server/remote_object.hpp
server::remote_object_apply_action
    hpx/components/remote_object/server/remote_object.hpp

stubs::distributing_factory
    hpx/components/stub/distributing_factory.hpp
stubs::remote_object
    hpx/components/remote_object/stubs/remote_object.hpp

remote_object::ctor_fun<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/ctor_fun.hpp
remote_object::dtor_fun<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/new.hpp
remote_object::invoke_apply_fun<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/object.hpp
remote_object::object<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/object.hpp

* macros


Other namespaces:

* functions
boost::serialization::serialize<Archive>
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
hpx::lcos::wait<>
    hpx/components/dataflow/async_dataflow_wait.hpp
hpx::iostreams::operator<<
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::create_cout
    hpx/components/iostreams/standard_streams.hpp
hpx::iostreams::create_cerr
    hpx/components/iostreams/standard_streams.hpp
hpx::iostreams::cout
    hpx/components/iostreams/standard_streams.hpp
hpx::iostreams::cerr
    hpx/components/iostreams/standard_streams.hpp
hpx::iostreams::iterator_write_function<>
     hpx/components/iostreams/write_functions.hpp
hpx::iostreams::make_iterator_write_function<>
    hpx/components/iostreams/write_functions.hpp
hpx::iostreams::std_ostream_write_function
    hpx/components/iostreams/write_functions.hpp
hpx::iostreams::make_std_ostream_write_function
    hpx/components/iostreams/write_functions.hpp

* classes
hpx::traits::get_remote_result
    hpx/components/server/distributing_factory.hpp
hpx::traits::promise_remote_result<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/object.hpp
hpx::traits::component_type_database<>
    hpx/components/remote_object/object.hpp
hpx::lcos::dataflow<>
    hpx/components/dataflow/dataflow.hpp
hpx::lcos::dataflow_base<>
    hpx/components/dataflow/dataflow_base.hpp
hpx::lcos::dataflow_base
    hpx/components/dataflow/dataflow_base_void.hpp
hpx::lcos::dataflow_trigger
    hpx/components/dataflow/dataflow_trigger.hpp
hpx::traits::is_dataflow<>
    hpx/components/dataflow/is_dataflow.hpp
hpx::lcos::server::dataflow
    hpx/components/dataflow/server/dataflow.hpp
hpx::lcos::server::dataflow_trigger
    hpx/components/dataflow/server/dataflow_trigger.hpp
hpx::lcos::stubs::dataflow
    hpx/components/dataflow/stubs/dataflow.hpp
hpx::lcos::stubs::dataflow_trigger
    hpx/components/dataflow/stubs/dataflow_trigger.hpp
hpx::iostreams::lazy_ostream
    hpx/components/iostreams/lazy_ostream.hpp
hpx::iostreams::sync_flush_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::sync_endl_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::flush_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::endl_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::async_flush_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::async_endl_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::local_flush_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::local_endl_type
    hpx/components/iostreams/manipulators.hpp
hpx::iostreams::buffer
    hpx/components/iostreams/server/output_stream.hpp
hpx::iostreams::server::output_stream
    hpx/components/iostreams/server/output_stream.hpp
hpx::iostreams::stubs::output_stream
    hpx/components/iostreams/stubs/output_stream.hpp
